From our recent readings, decolonization could begin with education like the one in this class. Before this class, I was not aware of the vast information on Ethnic Studies. As previewed in our previous module, Chapter 2, there are a wide variety of real stories relating to a wide variety of unique people throughout history, each with their own experiences. I believe that the first step would be learning more about the tools to help us study and visualize better, like the idea of Intersectionality in Chapter 5.3. Although the idea could be considered 'trivial' by some, the clarity and focus offered really helps us use it as a tool to better 'visualize' different disparities in various categories someone might fit in. With this education, I believe the next step could be recognition and a sense of solidarity. Just like how the beginning of Chapter 5.1, "Native Americans: History and Demographics," reads, "This chapter will begin by acknowledging that Long Beach, California is Kizh and Tongva land." Being that "[Native Americans] have been on this continent much longer than any other racial or ethnic group" (Chapter 5.1), the efforts to recognize the original natives' land seem like a great step in starting decolonization. In the development of decolonization, while gaining knowledge in Ethics and developing solidarity with others, it's important to also acknowledge "color-blind racism," whiteness, white fragility, as these are so entrenched in our and other societies, making it crucial to resist and counter cultural norms that make these themes related to whiteness invisible. Additionally, just as stated in Chapter 6.5 Social Institutions, "institutional racism can be understood simply as 'Business as Usual.' It is business as usual that people of color tend to be underrepresented in powerful positions...," so adding onto the work towards decolonization, is revealing these institutionally, equally 'invisible,' set mechanisms that benefit whiteness and disadvantage people of color, including redlining, steering, white flight, and gentrification.