1.  Describe the role of the early Christian church in the music of the Middle Ages.
In, Chapter 6: The Middle Ages, it immediately explains the tight grip that the Christian church had on the art like architecture, poetry, and music. With the small exception for only popular musicians, called minstrels and jongleurs, music was composed by people in "holy orders" such as monks and other clerics. All musicians would get their musical training as choirboys. The music created by the church was to chant or sing prayer and Christian concepts. Sining prayer was better than just speaking the words and gave it more status. No matter if a local smaller church or for monks, nuns, priests, or clerics attached to great cathedrals, the music was the same and set by the higher Christian authority. This music was used in Christian liturgy, which were calendar organized services which specified how to worship in terms of seasons, weekdays(ends), day or night, how to celebrate special days like Christmas or beginning of Lent.

2.  Briefly describe the shift in sources of political and artistic influence during the Middle Ages. 
Over the span of the Middle Ages, according to Chapter 6: The Middle Ages, the wealthy such as kings and barons slowly gained political power, taking it away from the Christian church. With this power transfer also came the leadership in the arts, joining the church as major supporters of music. There were noble poet-composers who performed court songs called, troubadours in south France, Trouvéres in north France, and Minnesingers in Germany. These noble composers were composed of knights, princes, kings. The Troubadour society also let women compose and perform songs. Some of the artistic influence this change in power was in subject matter. Instead of the tightly Christian church controlled music worshiping and chanting church subject matter, now the noble poet-composers wrote crusaders' songs, such as laments for dead princes, praise or complaints of poets' ladies, seduction dialogue between knights and country maids. This influence was enhanced as after 1200 C.E. polyphonic music was becoming increasingly secular distancing itself from the church. Two or more voices, each with it's own lyrics were layered on top of a piece of Gregorian chat repeated over a bottom voice. As previously mentioned they words were now of love, political commentary, and even cries of street vendors. 

**_3.  Renaissance_** means “rebirth.” What was reborn during the Renaissance and what was the source of the inspiration for the Renaissance? Discuss.
According to, Chapter 7: The Renaissance, the Renaissance was a complex current of thought that set changes in Europe from the fourteenth to the sixteenth century. Beginning in Italy, the Renaissance was inspired by attempting to rediscover and imitate Italians ancient Grego-Roman history, hoping to bring the rebirth of their "glorious past". Even though Renaissance didn't bring anything about politically it was a model for newly set values that first took place in Italy then the rest of Europe. This age was one of "Columbus and Magellan, Leonardo da Vinci,... and Shakespeare." Brining more attention to human beings and nature rather than focusing on God. The Renaissance's "rebirth", way of thought gave people the permission to question and experiment. "Renaissance composers \[took] a relaxed attitude toward medieval authority." Attitude, music, and art were reborn. Musicians, artists, architects, and writers were looking for inspiration from ancient Greece and Rome for exploration of music's expressive powers.

4.  Describe the change in attitude of Renaissance composers with regard to medieval authority and intricacy in composition. For example, what was the Renaissance attitude toward isorhythm?
Instead of music being rigidly controlled by the Church and medieval hierarchy, renaissance composers took a more, "relaxed attitude towards medieval authority." An example of this more liberal attitude is how musicians distorted painchants. They also added fixed, arbitrary rhythms to the meterless chant, additionally plainchats started to become more like melodies to listen to and not as solid fixed foundations for polyphonic structure. Renaissance composers also paraphrased, or added extra notes, updated "awkward or old-fashioned" passages, or set the plainchats to rhythms. Renaissance composers attitude towards isorhythm was to create, "a much simpler style for their polyphonic songs, or chansons: simpler, gentler, and more supple." Rejection isorhythm didn't mean Renaissance composers didn't practice their technical craft, but they focused on more larger-scale music for mass. Also these chansons structure were more imitative and created to last. Even for Mass the polyphonic music was standardized into a the five-section form that we hear present day.

5.  How did the idea of expressiveness in music change from the medieval period to the Renaissance? What inspired this change?
Composers of the Renaissance era seemed to start focusing more on matching words and music. The Composers realized that both music and words could express emotions and they wanted to sync them. Two new important developments that would push expressiveness in music at the time were accurate declamation and "word painting". Accurate declamation is the way in where the composers ensured words over music were sung like rhythms in normal speech. Word painting used melodies that followed patterns or rose or fell in pitch to express the text being sung; illustrating the text through music. Shimmering words such as fly or glitter would be set to rapid notes, words like up or heaven were set to higher notes. Also a Sigh would be used to include a rest, as if the singer stopped to sigh. Additionally, dissonant or distorted harmonies would be used when singing about grief, cruelty, torment, or harsh subject matter. This change was inspired by composers drawing from reports of the music of ancient Greece, continuing in the spirt of "rebirth", exploring music's power to express human feelings.

6.  Briefly describe how Baroque music differs from Renaissance music in terms of rhythm, meter, mode, and harmony. You can put your answer in chart form if you wish.
The rhythm in Baroque became more defined, regular and insistent as compared to the dynamically sectioned subtle, floating rhythms of Renaissance music. The meter in Baroque had new emphasis as Bar lines started being used for the first time in history. As where, meter in Renaissance music meter was not as important. In terms of mode, Baroque musicians developed the modern major/minor system and chords became standardized along with the sense of tonality; the feeling of a "home pitch", or tonic, grew much stronger. In Renaissance music however, the simpler medieval modes were still used. Harmonically, Baroque composers also created a way more coherently handling relationships between cords where each cord had a special role that related to the tonic cord or the cord on the home pitch. This change in harmony allowed cords to follow others in a new predictable way; functional harmony. In contrast, harmony in Renaissance music was more ephemeral, wandering, hesitant. 

7.  Explain why opera provided the perfect opportunity for individual emotional expression.
Opera provided the perfect opportunity for individual emotional expression because Opera provided a stage were an individual could step up and express themselves emotionally, expressing their feelings through words; directly and powerfully. With this created ever-changing dramatic action, the composers felt the need to relieve the constant emotional tension on the characters, resulting in the standard dualism of recitative and aria that Opera has had since. Recitative is the technique of declaiming words musically in a heightened, theatrical manner. Recitative technique mirrors and exaggerates the natural ups and downs that occur in speech when questioning, lowering for asides, or crying out in distress; musical accompaniment was kept to a minimum. Conversely, an aria was an extended solo piece which the singer has more music and coherence than a recitative passage. In a voice being more melodic, rhythm being more steady, a clearer meter and usually was accompanied by the entire orchestra. Areas were more for soliloquies or meditations.